[Music]
you're going to need some spaghetti or
you could use totally linguine whatever
you've got really some chili I've put
dry chilli flakes because use some fresh
chilli some broccoli a couple of garlic
cloves I've got two nice fat garlic
cloves bags I like it quite garlicky and
lemon some bread I've got a hunk of
stale bread there which we're going to
use to make some lovely crispy bread
crumbs for the top they're not essential
that they are english' some Angela
Phillips and it's mobile first of all I
want to make some bread crumbs out of
this bread so I'm gonna do this by
grating it on a normal box grater
as you can see it's quite tough and
stale which is perfect so just grate it
on the coarse side until you've got a
nice kind of rough
chunky bread crumb
you could of course whiz this in a
blender if if you want to okay so that's
probably enough for me for one dish of
pasta so just set that aside until later
now we just want to chop the broccoli
and crush the garlic so I'm just gonna
take a few florets off of this head of
broccoli you can use the stalk as well
be enough for us
so just finely chop the stalks and
roughly chop the heads and finally crush
your garlic when I'm crushing garlic I
like to add a spring kale of course II
fell on to the garlic and then just
crush it with the flat part of my knife
and this just gives it a little bit of
abrasion to crush up against and it
would be a nice smooth paste
[Applause]
okay so now we're ready to cook I'm
gonna heat up a nice big pan it needs to
be big enough to hold the spaghetti and
the other ingredients while they're
cooking and you want to add a really
generous like olive oil the olive oil is
going to emulsify with the cooking water
from the pasta and make a lovely sauce
so you do need a good glug of oil in the
pan then we'll just go in with our
garlic paste and in with it's lovely and
to these I'm using some anchovies and
oil here so I'll just add a little bit
of that oil as well because I've got
loads of flavor and I'm going to put in
about three or four Phillips
and also a little sprinkle of hot chili
flakes again if you've got fresh chili
that would be really nice and add that
now we just want to melt with anchovies
into the sauce so you want a nice low to
medium heat here don't want to burn that
garlic so if you haven't clicked with
antony's before and you think you don't
like them don't be afraid to use them in
something like a pasta sauce or even
with lamb they don't really have an
overly fishy taste they'll just add a
really nice savory salty umami flavor
which is almost undetectable is just
really really tasty rich savory flavor
so give it a go if he's know needs it
for and to be the really meaty and they
just add so much flavor to this like
this so you can see there's an trees
just melted away into oil sizzling
nicely now we're going to add off to get
big enough to Swan person and a broccoli
now we're just gonna pour in about a
centimeter or so of water from the
kettle nice hot water and the pastor
would start to cook straight away
so use some tongs and just ease that
spaghetti down into the sauce and we're
going to cook everything in one pan so
much less washing up and you wanted to
bring that up too little bubbles okay
see if you feel this spaghetti has just
softened a little bit enough to be able
to bend it into the water so what you
want to do is click this now and see the
spaghetti is cooked the broccoli is nice
and soft and broken down and the water
has evaporated and left with a nice
silky sauce you won't need to add any
more so we began to use a really salty
and just keep an eye on it keep it over
a nice moderate needs keep moving the
spaghetti around it doesn't stick
together keep topping it up with hot
water from the kettle if it looks a bit
drier the spaghetti is not cooked yet
and within about 10 minutes we're gonna
have the most delicious spaghetti okay
so while the spaghetti is cooking over
here we are going to make a really
delicious crunchy crispy bread crumb
topping and through Tangra tartar which
is gonna go on top raw spaghetti so I've
just heated up a little bit of olive oil
in this pan and we're sprinkling in
those breadcrumbs that by grated earlier
this is a great way to use up some old
and stale bread so it just goes plays
are in the oil and you could add some
more chili in play if you like it nice
and spicy or some herbs or we could just
use some parmesan instead if you want
this is an optional extra part of the
dish so cook those for a couple of
minutes
shaking pan every now and then until
nice and crispy
so added a drop more water to us the
guessing here so it's just drying out a
little bit not cooked just yet you'll
notice as it cooks the broccoli gets
nice and soft and what I like to do is
just use my toes wash it into the sauce
a little bit and that way it just coats
the spaghetti really nicely once it's
all cursed in and your you'll cook the
broccoli a little bit more than you
would do normally if you're just serving
it as a side and this is quite a classic
Italian way to cook speaker clip
broccoli with spaghetti so it becomes
part of the sauce okay clearly the pasta
is pretty much cooked now but we've
still got to have excess also in the pan
so I'm just gonna turn up the heat and
blast it for a minute or two until the
pasta it's really cooked and the sauce
is just nicely coating the spaghetti
ready
go a cow pastures looking really silky
and gorgeous so just as a final touch
we're going to add some fresh lemon zest
straight pan about half of them in make
sure you don't get any of the white pith
in because that will make it bitter just
touch of lemon juice just to cut through
that rich olive oil
[Music]
I'm ready to serve
and don't forget those lovely crispy
bread crumbs all over the top so a go
one of my absolute favorite ways to eat
spaghetti great store cupboards recipe
uses up loads and lovely cheap
ingredients I hope you love it
you